Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Artificial Intelligence and Computing (ICAAIC 2022)
 IEEE Xplore Part Number: CFP22BC3-ART; ISBN: 978-1-6654-9710-7
 Detection of Stress in IT Employees  
using Machine Learning Technique 
1stSuresh Kumar Kanaparthi 
Computer Science and Engineering
 Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of 
Engineering and Technology 
2022 International Conference on Applied Artificial Intelligence and Computing (ICAAIC) | 978-1-6654-9710-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICAAIC53929.2022.9793195
 Hyderabad, India 
sureshkonline@gmail.com 
4thBhavya Kadiam 
Computer Science and Engineering 
Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of 
Engineering and Technology 
Hyderabad, India 
bhavyakadiam796@gmail.com 
2ndSurekha P 
Computer Science and Engineering 
Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of 
Engineering and Technology 
Hyderabad, India 
Prekha.572@gmail.com 
5thBeulah Mungara 
Computer Science and Engineering 
Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of 
Engineering and Technology 
Hyderabad, India 
beulah.tillu@gmail.com 
Abstract- The objective of this paper is to apply 
machine learning and visual processing to identify 
overworked IT employees. Our technology is an 
improved version of older stress detection systems 
that did not include live detection or personal 
counseling. Stress detection methods that don't 
include 
3rdLakshmi Priya Bellamkonda 
Computer Science and Engineering 
Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of 
Engineering and Technology 
Hyderabad, India 
lakshmipriya.bellamkonda09@gmail.com 
[10]. Preventative interventions can assist to lessen 
the harmful repercussions of stress. 
real-time 
monitoring or individual 
counselling are being updated in this research. A 
survey is used to collect data on employees' mental 
stress levels in order to provide effective stress 
management solutions. In order to get the most out of 
your employees, this paper will look at stress 
management and how to create a healthy, 
spontaneous work environment. 
Keywords- Stress prediction, KNN classification, facial 
expressions. 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
To be competitive, the IT industry is continually 
launching new items and services. Furthermore, 
employees' stress levels have increased over the 
past year, according to this poll. The problem 
exists, despite the fact that many firms provide 
mental health benefits to their personnel. We'll start 
by looking at the stress levels of employees in the 
workplace. Images and machine learning will be 
used to examine stress patterns and pinpoint the 
most important factors that influence individual 
stress levels. According to the WHO, stress is a 
mental disease that affects one out of every four 
voters. Mental and social issues, a lack of openness 
in the job, a loss of faith in coworkers, and even 
death are just a few examples [12] [3]. Counseling 
is beneficial to people who are under a lot of stress. 
If we don't take precautions to control stress, 
societal and economic systems may be affected 
These days, it aims at providing new technology 
and items to the economy in order to provide a 
fresh perspective. The strain levels in employees 
were found throughout this study, which raised the 
standard high [12]. 
Questionnaires are routinely used in the field of 
stress research to get insight into overall working 
experiences, but little is known about the 
immediate consequences of stressors at work [10]. 
There will be a hesitation on the side of people to 
declare whether or not they are worried. Traditional 
techniques of evaluating workplace stress levels 
included asking employees to fill out a survey [18]. 
To get the paperwork to the receiver, the sender 
had to put in a lot of time and effort [7]. Employers 
who use the Stress Detection System can better 
prepare their employees to deal with stressful 
events before they occur. While office workers are 
concentrated on their task, stress identification 
might sometimes imply distinguishing between a 
'stressed' and a 'relaxed' condition [20]. Employees' 
headshots are taken, and survey questionnaires are 
given to them that are similarly standard in style 
and layout. Physical exertion is reduced, which 
saves both time and money [27]. This 
organizational strategy can assist relieve employee 
stress by using our painstakingly developed 
questionnaire. 
The usage of stress monitoring software can 
improve both the well-being of society and the 
health of individuals. It is consequently necessary 
to develop scientific technologies that can analyses 
physiological data and automatically estimate stress 
levels in humans [21]. Obesity, heart attack, 
diabetes, asthma, and other health complications 
may arise as a result of stress. Hourly, a student in 
a different section of the country commits suicide. 
978-1-6654-9710-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
 486
 Authorized licensed use limited to: Florida Institute of Technology. Downloaded on July 13,2022 at 11:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Artificial Intelligence and Computing (ICAAIC 2022)
 IEEE Xplore Part Number: CFP22BC3-ART; ISBN: 978-1-6654-9710-7
 According to a Lancet report in 2012, our country 
has seen a substantial number of suicide cases 
among young people aged fifteen to twenty-nine 
[2]. Stress detection has been shown in studies to 
enhance people's outlook on life, which could have 
a substantial social benefit. Companies in the 
information technology sector are currently altering 
the industry by introducing new technologies and 
products. 
The three steps of image processing are as follows: 
Tools for importing images can be used to do this. 
During the process, images are reviewed and 
edited. A modified image or a report is the output 
of the image analysis. Machine learning is an 
artificial intelligence approach that allows a system 
to learn and evolve without being explicitly 
programmed (AI)[5]. The construction of computer 
programmers that can learn on their own is the 
subject of "machine learning," a branch of 
computer science [5]. 
The assessment of previous work on stress 
detection depended on digital signal processing, 
which took into account Galvanic skin reaction, 
blood volume, pupil dilation, and skin temperature 
[1]. Other studies on this topic use a number of 
physiological indicators and visual characteristics 
(eye closure, head movement) to quantify stress 
levels in persons who are focused on their work 
[21]. These measurements, on the other hand, are 
obtrusive and uncomfortable in real life application 
[5][11][17]. Stress is a factor in as many as 50 
percent to 80 percent of all health problems, 
according to medical sources [1][24]. The core 
cause of cardiovascular disease is largely regarded 
to be stress. Stress plays a role in a number of the 
most frequent health problems in the United States. 
All of these issues, along with a plethora of others, 
are classified as psychosomatic (i.e., caused or 
amplified by mental causes such as stress) [8]. 
There are three areas where stress has a harmful 
impact. 
Stress can manifest itself in a variety of ways, 
including feelings of guilt, embarrassment, worry, 
and even fury and impatience. Loneliness can 
manifest itself as fatigue, tension, concern, 
irritation, moodiness, and loneliness. As a result of 
stress, a person's behavior alters. When people are 
stressed, they are more likely to get into accidents, 
abuse drugs or alcohol, or engage in 
confrontational behavior. Anxiety and stress can 
decrease cognitive ability, cause impulsive 
behavior, 
Sensor technologies, such as smartphones and 
wearables with physiological and movement 
sensors, have been the focus of recent research 
[22][25]. 
Fig. 1 
Above Fig. 1 shows the model of stress which can 
be caused by the change in sleep patterns, physical 
activity, increase in number of working hours, 
change in Heart Rate. 
II. 
LITERATURE SURVEY 
1) Detecting stress and anxiety via facial clues 
Authors:  G. Giannakakis, et al. 
Using video-recorded face clues, this literature 
review establishes a model for detecting and 
identifying stress/anxiety emotional states. Through 
some kind of range of external and internal 
stresses, a complete experimental method was 
designed to induce systematic diversity in 
emotional 
states 
(neutral, 
relaxed, 
and 
stressed/anxious). In order to evaluate emotion 
expression more clearly and accurately, the paper 
concentrated mostly on non-voluntary and semi
voluntary facial cues. Sight related activities, oral 
activity, gesture recognition characteristics, and 
heart rate were also examined [4]. 
2) Image Processing and Machine Learning 
Techniques used for Stress Detection  
Authors:  Nisha Raichur, et al. 
limit 
memory, and even cause 
hypersensitivity to criticism [13]. In the early 
stages of depression, tension is common. Money, 
employment, and personal relationships are just 
some of the factors that might generate stress. 
Employees in the corporate world have a limited 
idea of what it's like to work in high-stress 
situations. Long-term stress is particularly common 
among those in the IT business. 
A real-time non-intrusive video is produced in this 
paper, which detects by analyzing a person's facial 
expression, can determine their emotional state. 
Each video frame contains an individual feeling, 
and the stress level is determined in the hours after 
the video capture[18]. A mechanism is applied that 
enables us both to train a system and analyze 
feature prediction differences. The paper findings 
978-1-6654-9710-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
 487
 Authorized licensed use limited to: Florida Institute of Technology. Downloaded on July 13,2022 at 11:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Artificial Intelligence and Computing (ICAAIC 2022)
 IEEE Xplore Part Number: CFP22BC3-ART; ISBN: 978-1-6654-9710-7
 suggest that the developed technique works 
effectively with a generic model of all ages[5]. 
3) Techniques for Predicting Stress in Working 
Employees Using Machine Learning 
Authors:  U. S. Reddy, et al. 
Machine Learning techniques were utilized to train 
the model that had constructed after preprocessed 
the data. It was measured and compared to the 
models shown above in order to determine how 
well they were manufactured [26]. Out of all the 
models boosting proved to be the most accurate in 
our experiments. According to the Decision Trees, 
factors such as gender, family history, and the 
availability of health benefits at work are all factors 
that contribute to stress. Many companies now 
know more about how to make their workplaces 
less stressful for their employees by implementing 
innovative technological solutions [6]. 
4) Analysis of Stress Detection among Employees 
using Machine Learning Techniques 
Authors: B. K. Kiranashree, et al. 
This research focuses on using Artificial Neural 
Network (ANN) classifiers to detect stress levels in 
employees. Employees' mental state is assessed by 
questions that use the Perceived Stress Scale, 
which also includes their health and wellbeing by 
measuring cardiac fluctuation and blood pressure. 
Because an ANN classifier can learn a large 
amount of data, we believe it will produce a rather 
more accurate solution [19] [15]. 
5) Recognition of mood at work by smartphones 
and wearable sensors 
Authors: Zenonos, et al. 
Sensor technologies, such as smartphones and 
wearables with physiological and movement 
sensors, have been the focus of recent research in 
this area [9]. We investigate the practicality of 
employing such devices for mood identification in 
the workplace in this research [14]. Every two 
hours, a new mood detection framework that can 
recognize five intensity levels for eight different 
types of emotions is proposed. In a small-scale user 
research, wearable sensing data in an office is 
collected to evaluate our technology environment. 
Our experiments have yielded promising results, 
allowing us to accurately distinguish different types 
of moods [14][16]. The use of sensors that measure 
physical properties can be costly and time-talking 
[7]. 
6) Machine Learning Paradigms for Recognizing 
Human Mental Stress 
Authors: Mrs. Megha V Gupta, et al. 
Detection of human mental stress utilizing Machine 
Learning frameworks and methodologies such as 
Electroencephalogram (EEG), Speech Signal, and 
audio-visual data. For stress detection using EEG, 
the Database for Emotion Analysis using 
Physiological Signals (DEAP) dataset will be used. 
Using Speech Signal and audio-visual data, 
RAVDESS (Ryerson Audio-Visual Data of 
Emotional Voice and Song) will also be designed 
to recognize Stress [18].  
7) Stress and Relaxation Magnitudes for Tweets 
Detection 
Authors: Reshmi Gopalakrishna Pillai, et al. 
In this exploration work, a WSD arrangement as a 
preprocessing stage to a current vocabulary based 
pressure/unwinding strategy. A dataset involving 
1000 tweets with questionable influence words was 
gathered 
and commented on with high 
interannotator understanding. Joining a WSD was 
found to fundamentally work on the presentation of 
TensiStrength regarding Pearson's connection and 
definite match rate, for both pressure and 
unwinding. TensiStrength with WSD outflanks AI 
strategies also. Given the moderately little size of 
the test set, this must be additionally concentrated 
on utilizing greater datasets explained with 
pressure and unwinding qualities [7]. 
8) Detecting Stress using Social Interactions 
Authors: Huijie Lin, et al. 
In this paper, a construction for perceiving clients' 
psychological tension states from clients' step by 
step web-based diversion data, using tweets' 
substance as well as clients' social coordinated 
efforts. Using authentic virtual diversion data as the 
reason, we focused on the connection between's 
client' mental tension states and their social 
association approaches to acting.We developed a 
crossbreed model that combines the part diagram 
model (FGM) with a convolutional frontal cortex 
affiliation to completely exploit both substance and 
social joint exertion data from customers' tweets 
(CNN) [8]. 
978-1-6654-9710-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
 488
 Authorized licensed use limited to: Florida Institute of Technology. Downloaded on July 13,2022 at 11:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
PROPOSED APPROACH 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Artificial Intelligence and Computing (ICAAIC 2022)
 IEEE Xplore Part Number: CFP22BC3-ART; ISBN: 978-1-6654-9710-7
 III. 
Stress is classified using supervised machine 
learning algorithms such as KNN classifiers in the 
proposed system. The detection of stress is 
accomplished through image processing. The 
worker's picture is given by the program as 
information, and Image Processing is utilized for 
discovery at the underlying stage. By translating an 
image to digital form and performing operations on 
it, 
image processing can improve or extract 
relevant information from it. In previous papers, 
various machine learning algorithms are used like 
SVM, linear regression, logistic regression, etc.., 
but didn’t use KNN for the experiment which is 
similar to our approach. Not only accuracy but we 
also 
found Classification Error, Sensitivity, 
specificity, false positive rate error, precision. Our 
system is an updated version of prior stress 
detection systems that did not include live analysis 
or individual counseling, but it now incorporates 
live monitoring and frequent employee analysis, as 
well as identifying physically and emotionally 
stress levels. Because there is no continuous taking 
of photographs, it takes less time and produces 
more effective outcomes when compared with the 
results achieved by continuously capturing images 
of a person. 
By taking a picture as inputs and returning a 
photograph or characteristics associated with those 
images as output. We use a bounded box to show 
the employee's feeling, and also the emotions are 
shown at the top of the bounded box. Angry, 
Disgusted, Fearful, Sad, and Neutral are all stress 
indicators. 
Fig. 2. Indication of stressed emotions states. 
Fig. 3. Indication of not stressed emotions states. 
A. Advantages of this Approach 
 
 
 
 
An image that has been edited or a 
report based on image analysis as a 
result of the output.  
The Stress Detection System helps 
workers in managing difficulties that 
add to stress by giving proactive 
stress management solutions. 
Over periodic times, we will take 
photographs of employees and then 
distribute traditional survey forms to 
them. 
We can also use live cam to detect the 
stress of the employee, which shows 
the stress characteristic of a person. 
Algorithm: K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) 
Dataset: 
To complete the task in accordance with 
predictions or judgments, an explicit mathematical 
model is developed using "training data". Image 
mining can be used to find hidden information in 
images, link previously unrelated data, and uncover 
new patterns in the data being mined. 
Dataset contains a grid representation of an existing 
dataset with distinctive characteristics. Feature 
selection is the method involved with diminishing 
the quantity of information factors while fostering a 
prescient model. It's the process of selecting 
appropriate characteristics for your classification 
algorithm that depends on the sort of issue you're 
attempting to answer automatically. However, 
Property Extraction produces a completely 
redesigned dataset with only mathematical input 
parameters as an outcome of Principal Component 
Analysis feature selection, which transforms to six 
principal components: Condition (No stress, Time 
pressure, Interruption), Stress, Physical Demand, 
Performance, and Frustration. 
978-1-6654-9710-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
 489
 Authorized licensed use limited to: Florida Institute of Technology. Downloaded on July 13,2022 at 11:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Angry: 
     
Disgusted: 
     
Fearful: 
      
Happy: 
     
Neutral: 
     
Sad: 
     
Surprised: 
     
IV. ALGORITHM 
The following is a general description of how the 
proposed system algorithm works: 
Step 1: Begin 
Step 2: Employee Login. 
Step 3: Determine whether or not the IT employee 
is currently employed. 
Step 4: If you haven't already, sign up. 
Step 5: Return to the previous step. 
Step 6: If the answer is yes, the employee will log 
in. 
Step 7:  Upload the Image. 
Step 8:  If the uploaded image is not in JPG file 
format then a message ”THIS IS NOT A JPG 
FILE” is displayed. 
Step 9:  If uploaded image file format is valid then 
image is detected. 
Step 10:  User Live Cam Detection. 
Step 11: KNN Algorithm Results are obtained  
Along with classification error, sensitivity, 
specificity, recall, precision, 
Step 12: End.  
 
A. Implementation of KNN 
 
 Machine learning is basically divided 
into 3 categories: Supervised learning, 
Unsupervised learning, reinforcement 
learning. We chose KNN algorithm 
among all the machine learning 
algorithms as it saves every piece of 
data and utilizes it to classify new 
data.  
 In this, no assumptions are made 
about the data. 
 It saves the dataset during training 
and then performs an action on 
dataset.  
 The K Nearest Neighbors' basic 
premise is that the data points with 
the shortest feature space distance 
from our new data point are called 
nearest neighbors. 
 K is the sum of all such data points 
we consider during the 
implementation of our classification 
algorithm.  
 We iterate the KNN method with 
various K values until we find one 
that greatly minimizes the number of 
errors while preserving the 
algorithm's capacity to make right 
predictions when given data it hasn't 
seen before. 
 In this it finds the minimum distance 
between the new data and the data 
points in the feature space. In this 
paper, the value of K is 5 and the 
distance is found by using the most 
popular distance metric called 
Euclidean distance. 
 The distance can alternatively be 
calculated using Hamming, 
Manhattan, or Minkowski distances, 
depending on the needs. 
 The distance is calculated between the 
new datapoint and the existing data 
points and takes the 5 nearest points 
to the data point.  
 The new datapoint will go into the 
category which has maximum nearest 
neighbors. 
 
 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Artificial Intelligence and Computing (ICAAIC 2022)
 IEEE Xplore Part Number: CFP22BC3-ART; ISBN: 978-1-6654-9710-7
 978-1-6654-9710-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 490
 Authorized licensed use limited to: Florida Institute of Technology. Downloaded on July 13,2022 at 11:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Admin has to login by “admin” as both user name 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Artificial Intelligence and Computing (ICAAIC 2022)
 IEEE Xplore Part Number: CFP22BC3-ART; ISBN: 978-1-6654-9710-7
 V. 
EXPERIMENTS AND 
ANALYSIS 
To check the efficiency of the stability, we 
gathered information and executed quantitative 
experimental investigation. 
Firstly User has to register with the required details 
user name, login ID, password, mobile, email, 
Locality, Address, city, state. with all the required 
details user has to register. If all the details are 
correct then the message will be displayed as “you 
have been successfully registered”. Password must 
contain one number, one upper case and lowercase 
letters and should contain 8 characters or more. If 
you enter email or mobile number which is already 
existed the it will display message as “email or 
mobile already existed”. If any of the field is 
missed then it will display a message as “please fill 
out this field”. If all these details are entered, then 
only user registration can be successful. 
Fig. 4. User Registration form 
User Registration is required to know whether the 
employee is currently employed to that IT 
Company or not and for the security and privacy 
purpose as well. If the person is introvert or some 
kind of person who is having inferiority complex is 
not interested in exposing his/her stress to others 
and also not comfortable in sharing their personal 
details like images, username, password, etc.  
Fig. 5. Admin login form 
and password. After admin successful login he can 
activate the successfully registered user. 
Fig. 6. Admin users page 
User can login with registered Login ID and 
password. He can successfully login only if admin 
activates that user. If admin doesnot activate that 
user then he cannot login and the message will be 
displayed as “your account not yet activated”.  
Fig. 7. User login Form 
If the user is successfully login then a page will be 
opened which contains Home, Image, Live Cam, 
KNN, Logout pages. 
Fig. 8. User Image Page 
If user clicks on the Image page, then the user can 
upload the image and can see the results. User can 
also see already uploaded images and its results as 
well. As this stores previous uploaded images, this 
can help for the future medical references by which 
psychiatrist can be able to help the person. Not 
978-1-6654-9710-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
 491
 Authorized licensed use limited to: Florida Institute of Technology. Downloaded on July 13,2022 at 11:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Artificial Intelligence and Computing (ICAAIC 2022)
 IEEE Xplore Part Number: CFP22BC3-ART; ISBN: 978-1-6654-9710-7
 only single face but this approach can also detect 
the multiple faces as well. 
Fig. 9. Uploaded Image Facial emotions 
If user clicks on the live cam then camera turns on 
and monitors the face of a person who is in front of 
the camera and displays the result. It also monitors 
multiple faces as well. 
Fig. 10. Using Live Cam Result 
After uploading the image or when using the Live 
Cam the result will be displayed on the top of the 
bounding box. 
If user clicks on KNN page then user can see the 
Accuracy which is obtained using KNN algorithm. 
Along with accuracy user can also see 
Classification Error, Sensitivity, specificity, False 
positive rate error, precision. 
Classification error implies how regularly is the 
classifier right? Sensitivity implies when the actual 
value is positive, how frequently is the prediction 
right? Specificity implies when the actual value is 
negative, how regularly the prediction is the right? 
False positive rate implies when the actual value is 
negative, how regularly the prediction is the 
wrong? Precision implies when a positive value is 
anticipated, how regularly is the prediction right? 
Fig. 11. KNN Algorithm Result 
By clicking on logout page user returns to the home 
page. 
VI. 
CONCLUSION 
The Stress Detection System is designed to assess 
employee stress by reviewing photographs 
submitted 
by 
verified 
users, 
making the 
framework is reliable. After the successful 
registration and login, user uploads the image and 
also uses the live cam. After uploading the image, 
we will get the output of the stress level on the top 
of bounded box as angry, sad, happy, disgusting, 
and neutral. 
978-1-6654-9710-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
 492
 Authorized licensed use limited to: Florida Institute of Technology. Downloaded on July 13,2022 at 11:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Artificial Intelligence and Computing (ICAAIC 2022)
 IEEE Xplore Part Number: CFP22BC3-ART; ISBN: 978-1-6654-9710-7
 We develop this model by using Machine Learning 
Algorithm like KNN classifier. We use KNN 
classifier and predict the accuracy of the model. 
Along with the accuracy we also predict 
classification error, sensitivity, specificity, false 
positive rate error, and precision. We can supply 
successful solutions for stress management, 
keeping the working conditions sound and 
unconstrained for representatives, and capitalizing 
on them all through work hours, thusly. 
VII. 
FUTURE SCOPE 
To identify stress, the proposed method combines 
image processing and deep learning. To extract 
features, images were gathered and analyzed. 
Along with the Live Cam, the video facility can 
also be benefitting to the future work with various 
algorithms. The algorithm processing outputs were 
used to train the model and test it with the test 
dataset. Despite the fact that the acquired results 
are preliminary due to the small number of persons 
involved or technical information, the key added 
value of this paper is acquired by permitting end - 
user to correctly recognize ongoing stress in order 
to decrease future health risk factor. A broader 
population study will be part of our future effort. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Widanti, N., Sumanto, B., Rosa, P., Miftahudin, M.F.. Stress 
level detection using heart rate, blood pressure, and gsr and 
stress 
therapy by utilizing infrared. In: Industrial 
Instrumentation and Control (ICIC), 2017 International 
Conference on. IEEE; 2017. 
[2] Ravinder Ahujaa, Alisha Bangab “ Mental Stress Detection 
in University Students using Machine Learning Algorithms”, 
International Conference on Pervasive Computing Advances 
and Applications,2019. 
[3] Sharma, L.D. , Bohat, V.K. , Habib, M. “Stress Detection 
Using EEG Signals”, Journal of Advanced Research in 
Dynamical and Control Systems,2017. 
[4] G. Giannakakis, D. Manousos, F. Chiarugi, “Stress and 
anxiety detection using facial expressions from videos,” 
Biomedical Signal processing and Control”, vol. 31, pp. 89- 
101, January 2017. 
[5] Nisha Raichur, Nidhi Lonakadi, Priyanka Mural, “Detection 
of Stress Using Image Processing and Machine Learning 
Techniques”, vol.9, no. 3S, July 2017.  
[6] U. S. Reddy, A. V. Thota and A. Dharun, "Machine 
Learning Techniques for Stress Prediction in Working 
Employees," 2018 IEEE International Conference on 
Computational Intelligence and Computing Research (ICCIC), 
Madurai, India, 2018. 
[7] Reshmi Gopalakrishna Pillai, Mike Thelwall, Constantin 
Orasan, “Detection of Stress and Relaxation Magnitudes for 
Tweets”, International World Wide Web Conference Committee 
ACM, 2018.  
[8] Huijie Lin, Jia Jia, JiezhonQiu, “ Detecting stress based on 
social interactions in social networks”, IEEE Transactions on 
Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2017. 
[9] Enrique Garcia-Ceja, Venet Osmani and Oscar Mayora, 
“Automatic Stress Detection in working environments from 
smartphones’ accelerometer data: A First Step” , 
arXiv:1510.04221v1 [cs.HC] 14 Oct 2015.  
[10] Saskia Koldijk , Mark A. Neerincx, and Wessel Kraaij, 
“Detecting Work Stress in offices by combining unobtrusive 
sensors”, IEEE Transactions on affective computing 2018.  
[11]Virginia Sandulescu, Sally Andrews, David Ellis, “Stress 
Detection using wearable physiological sensors”, Springer 
International Publishing Switzerland 2015. 
[12] Ankita  Patil,  Rucha  Mangalekar,  Nikita  Kupawdekar,  
Viraj  Chavan,  Sanket    Patil,    and    Ajinkya Yadav,    “Stress    
Detection    in    IT    Professionals   By   Image   Processing   
And   Machine   Learning,”   International   Journal   of   
Research   in   Engineering,   Science   and   Management, Vol. 
3, No.1, January-2020.  
[13] B.  Padmaja,  V.  V.  Rama  Prasad  and  K.  V.  N.  
Sunitha,  “A  Machine  Learning  Approach  for  Stress  
Detection  using  a  wireless  Physical  Activity  Tracker,”  
International  Journal  of  Machine  Learning  and  Computing, 
February, Vol. 8, No. 1, February 2018.  
[14] Zenonos, A., Khan, A., Kalogridis, G., Vatsikas, S., Lewis, 
T., Sooriyabandara, “Healthy Office: Mood recognition at work 
using smartphones and wearable sensors ” , IEEE International 
Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communication 
Workshops 2016. 
[15] Tanev, G., Saadi, D.B., Hoppe, K., Sorensen, H.B 
“Classification of acute stress using linear and non-linear heart 
rate variability analysis derived from sternal ECG” 2014 36th 
Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in 
Medicine and Biology Society.    
[16] Deng, Y., Wu, Z., Chu, C.H., Zhang, Q., Hsu, D.F.. Sensor 
feature selection and combination for stress identification using 
combinatorial fusion. International Journal of Advanced Robotic 
Systems 2013. 
[17] Ghaderi, A., Frounchi, J., Farnam, A.. Machine learning
based signal processing using physiological signals for stress 
detection. In: 2015 22nd Iranian Conference on Biomedical 
Engineering (ICBME). 2015.  
[18] Mrs. Megha V Gupta Dr. Shubhangi Vaikole “ Recognition 
of Human Mental Stress Using Machine Learning 
Paradigms”,2020. 
[19] Liu, D., Ulrich, M.. Listen to your heart: Stress prediction 
using consumer heart rate sensors 2015.  
[20] Nakashima, Y., Kim, J., Flutura, S., Seiderer, A., Andre, E.. 
Stress recognition in daily work. In: ´ International Symposium 
on Pervasive Computing Paradigms for Mental Health. 
Springer; 2015.  
[21] Xu, Q., Nwe, T.L., Guan, C.. Cluster-based analysis for 
personalized stress evaluation using physiological signals. IEEE 
journal of biomedical and health informatics 2015. 
[22] Gjoreski, M., Gjoreski, H., Lustrek, M., Gams, M.. 
Continuous stress detection using a wrist device: in laboratory 
and real life. In: Proceedings of the 2016 ACM International 
Joint Conference on www.jespublication.com Pervasive and 
Ubiquitous Computing: Adjunct. ACM; 2016. 
[23] Palanisamy, K., Murugappan, M., Yaacob, S.. Multiple 
physiological signal-based human stress identification using 
non-linear classifiers.Elektronika ir elektrotechnika 2015. 
[24] Villarejo, M.V., Zapirain, B.G., Zorrilla, A.M.. A stress 
sensor based on galvanic skin response (gsr) controlled by 
zigbee. Sensors,2012. 
[25] Selvaraj, N.. Psychological acute stress measurement using 
a wireless adhesive biosensor. In: 2015 37th Annual 
International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine 
and Biology Society (EMBC), 2015. 
[26] Sriramprakash.S ∗, Prasanna Vadana. D, O. V. Ramana 
Murthy “Stress Detection in Working People” 7th International 
Conference On Advances In Computing & Communications, 
ICACC 2017, August 22-24, 2017.                                                            
[27]Koldijk, S., Neerincx, M.A., Kraaij, W.. Detecting work 
stress in offices by combining unobtrusive sensors. IEEE 
Transactions on Affective Computing 2016. 
978-1-6654-9710-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
 493
 Authorized licensed use limited to: Florida Institute of Technology. Downloaded on July 13,2022 at 11:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
